# May 19, 2024

**Notes & Updates:** The fair wasn’t huge, but I feel very overwhelmed as a result. Specifically, I feel like it brought up a lot of negative emotions and confusions I have around my life stemmed from this topic, which I thought I had settled in 2020 when I worked on the project. 

I still remember sitting in front of the fertility doctor in his beautiful office in West London in early January of 2020. He was a well dressed man who lived in the countryside and commuted by train into London every day. When he said my AMH test result was very good, I felt weirdly validated. Like “Oh, I am a functioning woman.” That idea caught me by surprise. 

Now, coming back to this research and speaking to these clinics, sperm & egg banks, etc, I don't know why I feel like a failure as a woman for making the decision of not having children. And overwhelmingly so. In a way the decision was made for me? I have been single all these years and I really am not going to undertake such a significant life event without a partner. I know it’s completely irrational and it’s a result of years of being conditioned by my culture’s traditional values. But I can’t help it. 

I also feel inadequate in my research. I am worried that I am only able to present something that is superficial and presenting false information by lacking a through understanding of the process.

I was appalled by the lack of fact checking in donor submissions. [REDACTED] says that they trust their donors to be truthful in their submissions. They don’t fact-check and they don’t do psychological evaluations either. There are prescreening measures in place, but mostly focusing on the demeanors in the interview, not a real psychological evaluation. I would think the psychological evaluation part is important. Self-proclaimed "super donors" have been reported on numerous times. They run around in the world happily fathering hundreds (if not thousands) of children.

Comparing to [REDACTED] and [REDACTED] where they both have a more stringent evaluation process. [REDACTED] sperm donors go through an 1-year process. Only 1 sperm donor is selected out of 200 potential donor applications. [REDACTED] has a pretty large Asian donation base (about 100, but under UK  [REDACTED] regulations, it goes down to about 50) vs. [REDACTED] has 6. 

When asked about donor motivations, all sperm banks I spoke to said that these donors usually have someone within their circles (friends & family) went through fertility treatments. After seeing how difficult it is to conceive, they decide to donate.

Fertility show notes
[REDACTED] 
- They trust the donor given information, there is no verification
- 10 months program for sperm donors: first 2 months are screening, then 10 weeks of donation (once per week), then quarantine period for 6 months and then they get paid (equivelant of) £400 at the end of 10 months
- Each donation can produce 0 to multiple (even 20) vials
- IVF is about £8000-12000 total
- Sperm is about £1250 per vial, delivery is included

- I was asked what kind of sperm donors I am looking for? I actually never thought about it. My first thought was "not a dumb one." I asked the rep and he said that most people look based on ethnicity. That makes sense since people probably would prefer their children to resemble them, or decreasing the chance of being mistaken as the children's kidnappers in you are BIPOC. A friend of mine is an attorney, very beautiful and well accomplished. But every time she goes on vacation with her family (she is latina and her husband is white), she is often mistaken as the nanny.

[REDACTED] 
If the patient is after 45, the ministry of health of Cyprus needs to approve the treatment.

UK surrogacy laws
- The surrogate would give birth first, and then parent adopt the baby.
- It seems like all the clinics don’t deal with surrogates. They help to manage it, but it’s up to the patients to find their own surrogates. Thus, they don’t deal with any of the legal issues.
- On birth certificate, the surrogate will be the birth mother. But usually after the adoption goes through, then the surrogate mother is removed.
