# May 25, 2024

**Notes & Updates:** 

“AIs, at their current level of development, don’t perceive objects in the way that we do – they understand commonly occurring patterns.  Their reality is fundamentally different to ours – it is not born in the physical world but in a logical world. Certainly, as successive generations of AI develop, it is easy for us to have interactions with them that suggest that they do understand. Some of the results of textual analysis that I’ve done with ChatGPT definitely give the impression of understanding.”

This reminds me a lot of being an immigrant actually. When I first moved to the States, my English was only at a 4th grader level. It was also in the mid 90s. It was the hay day of “the melting pot” immigration theory. As immigrants, we had to fit in at all costs. Sticking out was risky. You could be seen as the weirdo and no one would sit with you at the lunch table. (Which was the case anyway as a foreigner.) With limited English skills at the time, I had to quickly mimic what native speakers would react to, like tones or voices, to pretend “Hey I totally got your joke. I am one of you.”

There is this interesting fascination about humans contextualizing AI as human-like, where we give AI traits that are identifiable as humans. For example, there are a lot of Reels now of humans flirting with ChatGPT 4.o when the new model came out. If we look at films and TV shows like 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), A.I. Artificial Intelligence (2001), Humans (2015), Meg3n (2023), and https://www.gq-magazine.co.uk/article/ai-films-and-tv-shows, there is a common visual trope of terrifying AIs ready to kill humans or vulnerable AIs who just want to live peacefully amongst humans. Either way, they develop feelings, something that seems so inherently human.

It’s almost like we are conditioned to fear AI through popular media. There is a fear being replaced, both physically (job securities, opportunities, stability) and emotionally (replacing a partner, like in Her). We need the human-like visual trope to feel closer to AI, but we fear what AI can potentially evolve to become.

**Key Action:** 
Reading: https://www.digital-science.com/tldr/article/the-lone-banana-problem-or-the-new-programming-speaking-ai/